README.md, before:

Redmine to Gitlab migrator
==========================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/oasiswork/redmine-gitlab-migrator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/oasiswork/redmine-gitlab-migrator) [![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/redmine-gitlab-migrator.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/redmine-gitlab-migrator)

Migrate code projects from Redmine to Gitlab, keeping issues/milestones/metadata

*Note: although certainly not bugfree, this tool has been used at @oasiswork
 to migrate 30+ projects with 1000+ issues, and some attention is paid to
 keeping data.*

Does
----

- Per-project migrations
- Migration of issues, keeping as much metadata as possible:
  - redmine trackers become tags
  - issues comments are kept and assigned to the right users
  - issues final status (open/closed) are kept along with open/close date (not
    detailed status history)
  - issues assignments are kept
  - issues numbers (ex: `#123`)
  - issues/notes authors
  - issue/notes original dates, but as comments
  - relations (although gitlab model for relations is simpler)
- Migration of Versions/Roadmaps keeping:
  - issues composing the version
  - statuses & due dates

Does not
--------

- Migrate users, groups, and permissions (redmine ACL model is complex and
  cannot be transposed 1-1 to gitlab ACL)
- Migrate repositories (piece of cake to do by hand, + redmine allows multiple
  repositories per project where gitlab does not)
- Migrate wikis (because we don't use them at @oasiswork, feel free to contribute)
- Migrate the whole redmine installation at once, because namespacing is different in
  redmine and gitlab
- Archive the redmine project for you
- Keep creation/edit dates as metadata
- Keep "watchers" on tickets (gitlab API v3 does not expose it)
- Keep dates/times as metadata
- Keep track of issue relations orientation (no such notion on gitlab)
- Remember who closed the issue
- Migrate tags ([redmine_tags](https://www.redmine.org/plugins/redmine_tags)
  plugin), as they are not exposed in gitlab API

Requires
--------

- Python >= 3.4
- gitlab >= 7.0
- redmine >= 1.3
- API token on redmine
- API token on gitlab
- No preexisting issues on gitlab project
- Already synced users (those required in the project you are migrating)

(It was developed/tested arround redmine 2.5.2, gitlab 8.2.0, python 3.4)


Let's go
--------

You can or can not use
[virtualenvs](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/), that's
up to you.

Install it:

    pip install redmine-gitlab-migrator


(or if you cloned the git: `python setup.py install`)

You can then give it a check without touching anything:

    migrate-rg issues --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-key xxxx \
      <redmine project url> <gitlab project url> --check

The `--check` here prevents any writing , it's available on all
commands.

    migrate-rg --help

Migration process
-----------------

This process is for each project, **order matters**.

### Create the gitlab project

It doesn't neet to be named the same, you just have to record it's URL (eg:
*https://git.example.com/mygroup/myproject*).

### Create users

Manual operation, project members in gitlab need to have the same username as
members in redmine. Every member that interacted with the redmine project
should be added to the gitlab project.
If a corresponding user can't be found in gitlab, the issue/comment will be
assigned to the gitlab admin user.

### Migrate Roadmap

If you do use roadmaps, redmine *versions* will be converted to gitlab
*milestones*. If you don't, just skip this step.

    migrate-rg roadmap --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-key xxxx \
      https://redmine.example.com/projects/myproject \
      http://git.example.com/mygroup/myproject --check

*(remove `--check` to perform it for real, same applies for other commands)*

### Migrate issues

    migrate-rg issues --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-key xxxx \
      https://redmine.example.com/projects/myproject \
      http://git.example.com/mygroup/myproject --check

Note that your issue titles will be annotated with the original redmine issue
ID, like *-RM-1186-MR-logging*. This annotation will be used (and removed) by
the next step.

### Migrate Issues ID (iid)

You can retain the issues ID from redmine, **this cannot be done via REST
API**, thus it requires **direct access to the gitlab machine**.

So you have to log in the gitlab machine (eg. via SSH), and then issue the
commad with sufficient rights, from there:

    migrate-rg iid --redmine --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-key xxxx \
      https://redmine.example.com/projects/myproject \
      http://git.example.com/mygroup/myproject --check


### Import git repository

A bare matter of `git remote set-url && git push`, see git documentation.

Note that gitlab does not support multiple repositories per project, you'll have
to reorganize your projects if you were using that feature of Redmine.

### Archive redmine project

If you want to.

You're good to go :).

Unit testing
------------

Use the standard way:

    python setup.py test

Or use whatever test runner you fancy.

Commit message:

support for migrating wiki pages
This requires that the GitLab project's wiki repository is locally
cloned, and will only convert the text contents (no attachments atm).
It is recommended to manually check the files to fix any conversion
errors.

README.md, after:

Redmine to Gitlab migrator
==========================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/oasiswork/redmine-gitlab-migrator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/oasiswork/redmine-gitlab-migrator) [![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/redmine-gitlab-migrator.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/redmine-gitlab-migrator)

Migrate code projects from Redmine to Gitlab, keeping issues/milestones/metadata

*Note: although certainly not bugfree, this tool has been used at @oasiswork
 to migrate 30+ projects with 1000+ issues, and some attention is paid to
 keeping data.*

Does
----

- Per-project migrations
- Migration of issues, keeping as much metadata as possible:
  - redmine trackers become tags
  - issues comments are kept and assigned to the right users
  - issues final status (open/closed) are kept along with open/close date (not
    detailed status history)
  - issues assignments are kept
  - issues numbers (ex: `#123`)
  - issues/notes authors
  - issue/notes original dates, but as comments
  - relations (although gitlab model for relations is simpler)
- Migration of Versions/Roadmaps keeping:
  - issues composing the version
  - statuses & due dates
- Migration of wiki pages including history:
  - versions become older commits
  - author names (without email addresses!) are the author/committer names

Does not
--------

- Migrate users, groups, and permissions (redmine ACL model is complex and
  cannot be transposed 1-1 to gitlab ACL)
- Migrate repositories (piece of cake to do by hand, + redmine allows multiple
  repositories per project where gitlab does not)
- Migrate the whole redmine installation at once, because namespacing is different in
  redmine and gitlab
- Archive the redmine project for you
- Keep creation/edit dates as metadata
- Keep "watchers" on tickets (gitlab API v3 does not expose it)
- Keep dates/times as metadata
- Keep track of issue relations orientation (no such notion on gitlab)
- Remember who closed the issue
- Migrate tags ([redmine_tags](https://www.redmine.org/plugins/redmine_tags)
  plugin), as they are not exposed in gitlab API

Requires
--------

- Python >= 3.4
- gitlab >= 7.0
- redmine >= 1.3
- pandoc >= 1.17.0.0
- API token on redmine
- API token on gitlab
- No preexisting issues on gitlab project
- Already synced users (those required in the project you are migrating)

(It was developed/tested arround redmine 2.5.2, gitlab 8.2.0, python 3.4)


Let's go
--------

You can or can not use
[virtualenvs](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/), that's
up to you.

Install it:

    pip install redmine-gitlab-migrator


(or if you cloned the git: `python setup.py install`)

You can then give it a check without touching anything:

    migrate-rg issues --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-key xxxx \
      <redmine project url> <gitlab project url> --check

The `--check` here prevents any writing , it's available on all
commands.

    migrate-rg --help

Migration process
-----------------

This process is for each project, **order matters**.

### Create the gitlab project

It doesn't neet to be named the same, you just have to record it's URL (eg:
*https://git.example.com/mygroup/myproject*).

### Create users

Manual operation, project members in gitlab need to have the same username as
members in redmine. Every member that interacted with the redmine project
should be added to the gitlab project.
If a corresponding user can't be found in gitlab, the issue/comment will be
assigned to the gitlab admin user.

### Migrate Roadmap

If you do use roadmaps, redmine *versions* will be converted to gitlab
*milestones*. If you don't, just skip this step.

    migrate-rg roadmap --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-key xxxx \
      https://redmine.example.com/projects/myproject \
      http://git.example.com/mygroup/myproject --check

*(remove `--check` to perform it for real, same applies for other commands)*

### Migrate issues

    migrate-rg issues --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-key xxxx \
      https://redmine.example.com/projects/myproject \
      http://git.example.com/mygroup/myproject --check

Note that your issue titles will be annotated with the original redmine issue
ID, like *-RM-1186-MR-logging*. This annotation will be used (and removed) by
the next step.

### Migrate Issues ID (iid)

You can retain the issues ID from redmine, **this cannot be done via REST
API**, thus it requires **direct access to the gitlab machine**.

So you have to log in the gitlab machine (eg. via SSH), and then issue the
commad with sufficient rights, from there:

    migrate-rg iid --redmine --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-key xxxx \
      https://redmine.example.com/projects/myproject \
      http://git.example.com/mygroup/myproject --check

### Migrate wiki pages

First, clone the GitLab wiki repository (go to your project's Wiki on GitLab,
click on "Git Access" and copy the URL) somewhere local to your machine. The
conversion process works even if there are pre-existing wiki pages, however
this is NOT recommended.

    migrate-rg pages --redmine-key xxxx --gitlab-wiki xxxx \
      https://redmine.example.com/projects/myproject \

where gitlab-wiki should be the path to the cloned repository (must be local
to your machine). Add "--no-history" if you do not want the old versions of
each page to be converted, too.

After conversion, verify that everything is correct (a copy of the original
wiki page is included in the repo, however not added/commited), and then
simply push it back to GitLab.

### Import git repository

A bare matter of `git remote set-url && git push`, see git documentation.

Note that gitlab does not support multiple repositories per project, you'll have
to reorganize your projects if you were using that feature of Redmine.

### Archive redmine project

If you want to.

You're good to go :).

Unit testing
------------

Use the standard way:

    python setup.py test

Or use whatever test runner you fancy.
